---
layout: post
title:  8/16 2022
date:   2022-08-16 08:10:00
description: a great day to be in Seattle
tags: leetcode blog
categories: leetcode blog
---

 
## August 16, 2022
So happy to be alive today!

Flew into Seattle for work last night and was settled into the hotel by around 10pm. Really enjoying a new book that I read on the plane called 
[You're Not Listening: What You're Missing and Why It Matters](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45892276-you-re-not-listening). I often find myself interrupting others or waiting for the other person to talk so that I can get in my next word. I would like to beat this habit and learn more about others. I'm about 25% done with the book as it's a pretty light read. This book reminds me of the quotation attributed to Epictetus. 
> "We have two ears and one mouth so that we can listen twice as much as we speak"

Listening is definitely one of my weaknesses, and this book does a great job of not making readers feel isolated by pointing out common themes of bad listeners. I think I can learn a lot from this book, so I'm going to continue to read thoroughly and digest my favorite content.

#### Running Lake Union
Haven't been doing much exercise lately, but I was super excited to run Lake Union this morning. I did this run with my best friend at the VERY start of covid when the outbreak was in Seattle only in the US. We had a great run during that trip. Feeling super nostalgic of that time period as that was when I saw the Strokes too. Can't believe how much time has passed.
<div class='strava-embed-placeholder' data-embed-type='activity' data-embed-id='7647336805'></div><script src='https://strava-embeds.com/embed.js'></script>


#### 3Sum Smaller 
This was a fun problem as I finally get working on a lot of these triplet problems. I still don't love that most of the problems rely on sorting the list since no matter what you'll be better of than O(N^3), but that's OK. This pattern seems to be easy to follow, and I look forward to zipping through a few more of these problems on my Grokking journey.

```
def threeSumSmaller(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> int:
    smaller_triplets = 0
    nums.sort()
    for i in range(len(nums)):
        new_target = target - nums[i]
        l, r = i + 1, len(nums) - 1
        while l < r:
            if nums[l] + nums[r] < new_target:
                # The trick is that since r >= l and l + r < target, then any items between l and r also work
                smaller_triplets += r - l
                l += 1
            else:
                r -= 1

    return smaller_triplets
```